+++
title = 'DigiBatt Cell FMU v2.0'
date = '2026-06-05T10:00:43Z'
draft = false
category = 'system-level-testing'
subcategory = 'publication'
link = 'https://zenodo.org/records/17234801'
doi = ''
license = 'cc-by-4.0'
authors = ['Xenakis, Leo']
year = ''
publisher = ''
funding_source = ''
+++

Executive Summary &nbsp; This is a brief user guide for deliverable D6.1, which is a software comprising the &ldquo;reduced order cell models for lifetime assessment&rdquo;, and officially closes Task T6.1 with delivery of the &ldquo;DigiBatt Cell FMU&rdquo; (Version 2.0). &nbsp; A first version of this Cell FMU was already delivered to WP7 (DigiBatt cell FMU (version 1.0)) and its integration, calibration and validation is described in [1]. &nbsp; The target objective here is TO5: &ldquo;Improve the reliability of battery lifetime predictions&rdquo;, and the relevant sub-objective is &ldquo;Reduced Order Models regarding lifetime prediction and ageing of battery cells - Faster delivery of information/parameter on lifetime KPI up to 20% at same prediction quality level or better&rdquo;. The associated KPI is KPI15: &ldquo;Model-based prediction of the inflection (or knee) point in the battery SoH profile, with less than 8% RMSE compared to experiment&rdquo;. Also, KPI 14 is relevant here, which refers to the &ldquo;RMSE in the simulated voltage between a digital twin model and the measurable reference&rdquo;. This shall be better than 5%. &nbsp; &nbsp; As explained in the interim report for M1 to 18 and in [6], we used field data only to train this Cell Digital Twin. This is on the one hand, due to the timing in the project and on the other, because it was an important research question, whether it would be possible. The field data used were available at project start and generated by a ferry ship, operating over a period of 4 years. As lifetime estimation is an important part of this work, the change in SoH was also observed and trained for this &ldquo;DigiBatt Cell FMU&rdquo; (Version 2.0). &nbsp; As one use-case, this Cell FMU will be used in WP7 for the battery system layout. Another, will be the integration into a BMS HiL (Task 6.4) &nbsp; The concept introduced with this cell model is promising. In summary, one can state that: 1)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The result in cell performance prediction is expected to be sufficiently good, and we expect the validation tests in WP 7 to confirm the fulfilment of KPI 14 clearlyand, 2)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Even with respect to lifetime estimation (via the SoH output channel), a plausible behaviour is expected to be reached. &nbsp; Nevertheless, regarding the knee-point detection, there is no judgement of KPI 15 possible, as the parameterization is based only on 4 years of operational field data for a &nbsp;ferry ship. As such, it features a rich variety of ageing effects, and correspondingly, performance prediction, over the first period of the lifetime. However, the data did not extend long enough to capture a knee-point, therefore this could unfortunately not be modelled. 1.1&nbsp;Installation The zip file (MoBat_FMU_v2.zip) provided together with this document includes the following files: 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; DigiBatt_Cell_FMU_v2_0.fmu 64-bit Windows environment FMU v3 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Digibatt inputs v2.0.xlsx Guide to the Input/Output variables There are no specific installation instructions, as the FMU can be incorporated into multiple environments. The way the inputs and outputs must be formatted is detailed in the excel file above under point 2. Please get in touch with AVL if different versions of the FMU are needed, e.g., different FMU version (e.g., 2.0), access to some internal parameters (e.g., thermal coefficient), or different execution environment support (e.g. Realtime, Linux, 32-bit etc). 1.2 Demo example A demo Simulink environment already incorporating the FMU (from 1 above) is also included in the above-mentioned zip file. The mat file contains dummy inputs that allow simulation of a whole day of operation and show the resulting output predictions of the delivered FMU. 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Put all the contents of the zip file provided into the same folder. 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Open DigiBatt_Cell_FMU_v2_0.slx, and initialise by loading dummy variables from Init_Vals_2020v2.mat. 3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Execute the model. Some scopes are included to visualise the predicted output against what was logged that day. Note: Matlab 2024b or later needed for execution of this Simulink model. Earlier versions of Matlab are not supported, as they do not seem to be compatible with some FMU v3 features.
